Bank Manager:
You wish to open an account?
Yes, please, sir.
It would be an honor.
And what would you bring as...
collateral?
It's the thing you want.
The thing you want
best of all.
You've brought me...
The Vessel?
( door opens )
After all these years,
I finally have
his precious...
This is a forgery.
You dare attempt to deceive
the Bank of Thieves?
You two are toxic assets,
and you know what
the Bank of Thieves does
with toxic assets.
It liquidates them.
- Wait.
- No!
Wait, I--
( grunting )
( music playing )
Let me be very clear.
No touching.
- It can't be.
- I don't believe it.
- It's Santa's sleigh!
- Yes, it is.
And also, no touching.
Chassis made
of exotic materials,
runners forged
of reinforced steel.
I wonder how fast this cat
can go when it gets on it.
Mr. Stone,
please, may I remind you
of the enormity
of our responsibility here.
This is the first time
Santa has ever left the sleigh
in the care of anyone
except the elves.
We have a duty of care.
To guard it,
to protect it,
and not to touch it.
I think it's wonderful.
The elves are finally
due a break.
Yes, indeed.
So, as Santa was,
and we all are.
Yeah, except for us,
'cause we'll on on sleigh duty
all Christmas.
I'm sorry, Ezekiel.
Are we boring you?
You keep checking your watch.
Yeah. It's a nice watch.
I like it, okay?
- Sunglasses! Sunglasses!
Where are my sunglasses?
- They're on your head.
- Ah. Sun hat? Sun hat? Su--
- Also on your head.
I'm not crazy
about this whole vacation idea.
What are you talking about?
To get asked to go on vacation
with Santa is an honor.
I'm not in
a very relaxing mood.
That is why you need
a vacation.
That's like me saying
I'm not hungry
and you saying
so have a big cake.
All right, now, thank you.
Librarians, please remember,
the sleigh must rest
and recuperate
in order to recover
its Christmas cheer
after the festive rush,
so... no touching.
Jenkins,
I'm getting this strange,
almost subliminal sense
that you don't want us
to touch it?
- Uh...
- Jenkins, come on!
We've got a door to catch.
Let's vamoose.
Let's giddyup.
Merry Christmas to all,
and to all a good night.
You sure you guys
are gonna be okay?
Yeah. We're gonna be here
at the Library
with a little quiet time
like little church mice.
Let's get this party started!
( chuckles )
( Christmas music playing )
So, what do you think?
You shouldn't have gone
to all this trouble.
Uh, I'm at a loss for words,
literally.
Knew you would love them.
I was worried they were gonna
be a little understated,
but now that I see them
with you guys,
they're perfect!
( chuckles )
- Try 'em on.
- Right now?
- Uh, I don't want to ruin it
by wearing it.
- It's warm in the Library.
- It's so...
- Go for it.
Listen, I don't want to get
the delicious eggnog on this
beautiful craftsmanship.
I think I'm gonna put
one of these stars
on this portrait
of Septimus the Seer.
He won't mind.
Probably saw it coming.
Jenkins said don't put
any tacky decorations up--
Cassandra:
Well, Jenkins isn't here.
And one man's tacky
is another girl's tasteful.
Ooh, Ezekiel, hand me
that tinsel baby Jesus.
Ezekiel?
Where'd he go?
( zaps )
Voices:
* A day for stealing
* A day for trouble
and much double-dealing *
* Hooray for greed
and laws made for breaking *
* We're giving up giving
for Happy Thankstaking *
( cheering )
Happy Thankstaking, girls.
Ooh, Charity.
( chuckles )
- This is...
- It's a Crowlex watch.
I stole it from Value Palace.
This is lovely.
You may put the price tag
on the shrine, dearie.
Ooh!
I nicked this one from the mall
for you, Mum.
- Ooh.
- ( music playing )
Thank you.
Ooh, that is perfect!
Just remember, love,
it's the price that counts.
We are doing him proud
this year, aren't we?
( door opens )
( gasps )
Ezekiel! Oh, my boy.
Happy Thankstaking, love.
You are just in time
to give me my gift.
Hello, Mum.
Charity, Honor, Mercy.
- What's this?
- Uh, it's the glass figurine
you said you wanted.
I thought it'd be nice,
you know.
- You've got
a collection going--
- No, no, no, no, no.
I mean, this.
There's no price tag.
- ( gasping )
- You bought this.
How am I supposed to honor
the Saint of Thieves
with a bought gift?
The whole point is you have to
give Mum something you stole.
We're celebrating
the Patron Saint of Thieves.
He can't accept a gift
that isn't stolen.
- He's not real!
- Neither is Santa.
Which is why we celebrate
Thankstaking Day.
And you give the gifts
to me.
But the gift
must be stolen.
You know I don't steal
anymore.
"Can't steal"
is more like it.
- You never could.
- ( laughter )
- I can steal just fine.
- He's never had a knack
for the family business.
Well, actually
I have quite the knack.
That's not the point.
Remember when he stole
that stupid egg thing?
( laughter )
It was a Fabergé egg,
okay?
Well, last month,
your baby sister Mercy here,
stole a pickup truck
with a dual hemi
right off the lot.
It was the crime of the century.
Congratulations, Mercy.
A pickup truck.
A dual hemi pickup truck!
You know, you should try
and be a little bit more
like your sisters.
He's not even in our league.
I'm not in your league?
If you can't make it
in crime, lad,
you-- you really need
to figure out what it is
you're doing with your life.
You want to know
what I'm doing with my life?
Saving yours and yours
and yours
and every damn person
you know!
Remember last year, hmm?
When the world didn't end?
Well, that was because of me.
Yeah, I've traveled the world.
I've traveled through time,
alternate realities.
I've battled demons,
giants, and beasts.
And for your information,
Mother,
Santa is real.
I know, 'cause I met him.
Did you sit on his lap?
- ( laughter )
- ( door closes )
Girls, stop it, stop it.
You've upset-- you've upset
your brother.
Ezekiel.
Oh, Zekey, stop it! Wait.
Listen, love,
it's good you got
an imagination.
You think I'm making it
all up?
Just because
you can't steal, that--
I can steal, Mother!
I have chosen not to!
I'm doing something important
with my life.
( chuckles )
Magic?
What are you gonna do?
Birthday parties?
Shriner conventions?
I am talking about--
actually, you know what?
Forget it.
- Come see for yourself.
- ( grunts )
Take a look at this.
Does this look imaginary
to you, Mum?
( gasps )
Our shed is bigger
on the inside.
This is the Library.
Yeah, yeah, it's a magic door.
And-- and you spin the globe
and it locks on to any door
in the world.
Because that's how cool
the Library is.
I mean, this is where
I work now.
It's who I am.
You know,
it's the most magical,
secretive,
important place on Earth.
And it is full of the most
improbable, impossible stuff
you've ever dreamt of.
And no one knows about it
'cause no one can.
It is top secret.
No one's even supposed to know
that it exists.
Especially you, Mum.
All right, uh, look,
you know what? We have to go.
You were right.
I was joking.
Uncle Harold,
he put me up to it.
That flaming drunkard.
All right, good-bye now.
Merry Christmas and
Happy Thankstaking.
( exhales )
Stone? Cassandra?
I'm back.
- I'm sorry. ( stammers )
- No, no, no, no!
I gotta take one more look.
No, no, no.
( exhales sharply )
Look at this.
Look at the ergonomics.
Deceptively simple.
Once you cut this bronco loose,
then you better back up, boy!
'Cause it'll kick you
in the head.
Hey, if I'm honest,
I like this more than I do
the magic door.
Guys, where's the globe?
Someone stole
the magic globe. Oh!
( gasps )
Someone stole
the magic door.
- Oh, God, Mum.
- We need to call--
Call Baird right--
did you just say--
- "Mum"?
- Sorry, n-- uh,
I might have given the, uh,
impression that I was
the black sheep
of my family.
But, um, in actual reality,
I'm more like the black sheep
in a flock of black sheep,
and my mum is the shepherd.
Your mother stole
the magic door?
What was she doing here,
Jones?
Well, I-- you know how it gets
with family.
They just get all up
in your face and you just--
Bring the to
the secret magic library
to steal the secret
magic door?
That never happens.
How good is she?
Uh, as a mother? Okay.
Not great.
- As a thief.
- Uh, okay, not great.
Wrong, Jones, all right?
She stole a magic door.
- She can go anywhere she wants.
- We need to get it back.
Where did she take it?
Uh, no, no, no, no, no.
You are not meeting my family.
Yeah, yeah.
This is what's gonna happen.
I'm gonna sort this out alone.
( ringing )
Hello?
Oh, Eve, thank God!
( grunting )
Flynn was right.
This is wonderful.
I'd say I told you so,
but I'm too relaxed
even to be right.
Eve:
How are things with you?
Actually, we have a problem.
Problem?
What's the problem?
No! No!
Cass, please, please, please.
They're my family.
I'll sort it out, please!
- I thought we were your family.
- You're a different sort
of family!
- Eve: Cass! Cass,
what's the problem?
- I like you guys. Please!
Please, please!
I'm begging you!
- Cassandra?
- I've never seen
him like this.
- Me neither.
- What's the problem?
It's okay.
We got everything sorted out.
I found it.
The bottle opener was in
the bottle opener drawer
with the bottle openers.
- All good.
- Okay.
Flynn, can you ask Jenkins
to get me one of those drinks
with the little umbrellas
inside?
- Actually two.
- Two umbrellas?
Drinks. Bye, kids.
I can't believe
you made me lie for you.
Ezekiel, I am not a li--
- Muah!
- Hey, man.
You're amazing,
you're fantastic!
You're my Christmas miracles.
- I'll see you guys later.
- Wait, where do you think
you're going?
- To get back the door.
- Where does she even live?
- Just outside
of Sydney, Australia.
- That explains the accent.
Problem. How are you going
to get 8,000 miles
across the world
with no magic door?
- Solution.
- No.
- Yes. Yep.
- Nope. No way!
Yep! It's time to let
this kitty purr.
Oh, no, no, no.
You're not coming with me.
Jones, I'm not passing up
a chance to drive this thing.
I am not letting this sleigh
out of my sight,
especially with the two of you
in it.
It's all or nothing, Ezekiel.
What's it gonna be?
All right, fine.
But don't say I didn't warn you.
Hey, uh, don't we need reindeer?
You know, Comet, Cancer,
- Flasher, Nixon?
- What? No.
They aren't canonical, okay?
Reindeer didn't show up
in Santa's legends
until "The Night Before
Christmas," 1823.
- It must run on rocket fuel.
- Nope. Christmas cheer.
All the goodwill
running through the world
at this time of year, see?
Oh, except it's nearly empty.
It's got its own key!
It's got a candy cane key.
( engine starting )
( exhales sharply )
Careful, you don't need
to show off.
Just take it nice
and gentle.
Hey, hey, hey!
Settle down.
Trying to get the hang
of this bronco.
Don't break it! Don't break it!
Don't break it!
Ah!
( grunting )
I think I got it.
Whoa!
Santa's goggles!
- Get in.
- I'm in.
- I'm already in.
- ( engine starting )
( sleigh screeching )
Stone:
Get ready to drop the hammer
and raise the throttle.
- Let this tiger bite.
- Cassandra: Stop calling
it animals!
( Cassandra screams )
( Stone grunts )
( all grunting, gasping )
Sorry. Should have took
into consideration
the jet stream.
- Ha! Oh!
- Aah!
- You all right?
- You don't get to drive
anymore.
What if she's used the door
and it's all gone wrong?
What-- what if she's stuck
in nether space or in limbo?
Or what if she's used
the door to steal Christmas
presents from around the world?
Mum! Mum?
Wow.
Huh.
I know they said Christmas
has gone commercial,
but this...
is weird.
It's the Patron Saint
of Thieves.
A family of thieves?
- Today is Thankstaking Day.
- Thankstaking?
It's a thieves' Christmas,
all right?
It's-- it's a darkened version
of-- of the festive season,
all right?
Where robbery and greed
are celebrated,
not giving,
not generosity.
Saint of Thieves.
In stories,
it's like Santa's bad brother.
Huh. I can see
the familial resemblance.
- She's not upstairs.
- Guys, you gotta see this.
Guys, I found--
I found the globe.
Oh! Oh, Ezekiel, crikey.
You nearly gave me
a heart attack.
Having fun, are we, Mum?
Oh, these?
Uh, this is not how it looks.
Really? 'Cause it looks like
you've been using
the magic door
to steal other people's
Christmas presents.
Okay, then it is how it looks.
So sue me.
Look, I've been
celebrating Thankstaking.
Greed is good.
You know, I got greedy. Good!
Guys, you gotta see this.
Cassandra Cillian.
Mrs. Jones, It's so nice
to meet you.
Ezekiel has told us, well,
absolutely nothing about you.
I should hope not.
I taught him better
than that. Tea?
Yeah.
Guys!
Do you know what this is?
It's "The Concert"
by Vermeer.
In 1990, two men posed
as police officers
and walked into
the Gardner Museum in Boston
and stole this masterpiece,
all right?
No one knows where it's been
for 27 years.
I do.
Mum, what have you done?
I quite liked it.
Maybe in the loo?
Mum, this painting was stolen
by the most dangerous man
in the world,
and you just stole it
from him.
Well, with a magic door,
he's hardly gonna catch me,
is he?
No, Mum, this man will.
This man you cannot
hide from.
This man does not forgive.
Problem!
The globe is on fire.
That wasn't me.
It was like that when I got it.
( all screaming )
( whimpering )
I'm getting pretty good
at flying this thing.
( whimpering )
We're coming up
over Geneva.
- Brace!
- ( all screaming )
- ( groans )
- That's it!
Next time, I drive.
- Ha.
- Okay.
So someone explain to me
what this bank is.
Well, legend has it
it's a bank for thieves
to protect their loot
from other thieves.
You can deposit what you want,
they don't ask questions.
It's guaranteed
thief-proof.
Ezekiel, have you ever had
an account there?
No. I never held on to what
I stole for long enough.
- Like that egg.
- Mum, enough about the egg.
And it was a Fabergé egg.
I don't care what perfume
you put on it, love,
it was a stupid gift.
Mum, don't.
So, where's this
Bank of Thieves?
Here.
- Where's the door?
- Exactly.
Fancy a game of chess?
You don't know
how to play chess.
Hmm.
Well, that's really not
how you play.
Stone:
Seems to be working for him.
- ( gasps )
- How'd you do that?
- You're in my world now.
- The chess pieces were
the combination.
It's incredible.
Mum, once we're inside,
I need you to do one thing
for me.
Don't call me
by my real name.
- What's wrong with Ezekiel?
- Don't even say that out loud!
You're gonna draw a lot
of unwanted attention.
- Why?
- Because every no-gooder
has heard of Ez-- of him.
Oh, please, you're talking
like my son's famous.
Unfortunately, he is.
( gasps )
"Maintain the honor"?
Honor amongst thieves,
I guess.
This is the one place
thieves cannot rob,
steal, or kill.
What would happen is someone
got caught stealing here?
( groaning )
( screams )
- ( gasps )
- They're liquidated.
Good luck on the adventure,
kids.
Let me know how
it all works out.
- ( groans )
- Come on, Mum.
Depositing one Fabergé egg.
Total value, 35 million.
You didn't tell me
that stupid egg was worth
that much.
Google it, Mum!
( indistinct chatter )
Look at this.
South American cartel,
Russian mafia,
the Chinese Triads.
It's like every flavor
of criminal in the world.
Why are they all twitching?
You \silly girl.
That's the ancient thieves'
language of Fingerthumbs.
We're all fluent
in our family.
- Mm!
- ( gasps )
Careful, boy.
If you don't speak
Fingerthumbs,
you don't know what
your hands are saying.
Scratching your earlobe
at someone
is just about the rudest thing
you can say to a thief.
- Can I get a beer?
- Yes.
Looks like the vault's
one more level down.
- We're gonna need
a clear-out.
- A what?
A distraction to get
the guards away from
the doorway.
Stone, you speak Russian,
right?
( cheering )
( chattering )
( speaking Russian )
I think this fell
out of your pocket.
That's not my wallet.
That's my wallet.
Give that to me, thief.
Who you call thief, thief?
( grumbling )
Maintain the honor.
Maintain the honor!
( grunting )
Mum, you are here for one reason
and one reason only,
and that is to show me exactly
where you took that painting.
So that's no risks,
no trouble,
and do not touch anything.
Look, the magic door put me
directly inside the vault.
Once we're in there,
I'll know exactly where
to put this.
Oh!
Not so easy.
( exhales deeply )
Maybe we should
forget about this.
I mean, we can just leave
the painting right here.
I mean,
you saw what they did
to people who steal.
Mum, we're not stealing.
We're putting something back.
All right, see that button
over there?
Press that,
it'll disable the alarms.
I'm gonna get there,
turn it off,
and we'll have a clear path
to the vault.
How are you gonna get
to that button?
By being me.
( grunting )
- Huh.
- Watch out!
( grunting )
How did you do that?
Everything I've seen today,
the wallet lift,
the laser dance, this,
with all those skills,
how come you're not
a great thief?
Okay, Mum,
why don't you tell me
which slip did you take
the painting from?
This one. 203.
Ah. All right.
- ( alarm blaring )
- Huh?
Mum, the door!
No, no, no, no, no.
No!
- ( alarm blaring )
- I don't get it.
We did everything right.
( exhales sharply )
( door opening )
Oh, no. It's him.
Congratulations.
Very few thieves
ever get this far.
You have earned
my applause for your skill
and your audacity.
No, really, it was--
it was nothing.
Forgive me,
but you have the advantage.
I don't even know your names.
Uh, I-- I'm Lenore Jones.
Ms. Lenore Jones.
- Mum!
- Thi-- this is my son...
Ezekiel.
Mum!
Ezekiel Jones?
The Ezekiel Jones?
I wondered when our paths
would finally cross.
Uh, we weren't stealing.
We were actually
returning some--
Mum, shut up, okay?
You've got us into
enough trouble.
Don't you speak to me like that.
Who do you think you are?
Ezekiel Jones, the greatest
thief in the world.
- What? Him?
- Which leads me to ask,
apart from being
Ezekiel's mother,
who the hell are you?
I'm-- I'm no one.
Precisely.
And so I wonder, Mr. Jones,
how did a low-rent,
low-class nothing
of a shoplifter like her
defeat the security
of my bank?
She is not nothing.
Oh, she is the very definition
of the word, I'm afraid.
And yet she still broke in.
How?
I know how to keep
my gob shut, don't I?
Jones don't crack.
( demonic voice )
How did you break in?
- With a magic door.
- Mum!
I'm sorry! I don't know why
that just slipped out.
( normal voice )
Why not use it again?
Mum, don't tell him.
( demonic voice )
Why?
Because it overheated
and then we had to us--
- Mum, don't!
- Go on.
- In Santa's sl--
- Mum! Shut up.
- Tell me.
- In Santa's sleigh.
Oh, my God, I'm sorry.
I don't know what's wrong
with me.
( normal voice )
The Vessel... is here?
Oh, you wonderful woman!
I take it all back.
You are the greatest thief
in the world.
- I am?
- Oh, you are.
For you have
brought me something
I have been searching for
across unimaginable lifetimes.
Guards! Sweep the streets.
Find the sleigh
and bring it to me.
( chuckles )
Go!
How'd you do that
with your voice?
You-- you hypnotized her!
Uh, she's a thief.
And all thieves must
answer me truthfully.
It is my right.
Just as Thankstaking
is my day.
You find me
at my most powerful, boy.
And soon, Santa's sleigh
shall be mine to destroy.
And then I'll finally
have revenge upon
my accursed brother.
Oh, my God.
You're the Patron Saint
of Thieves.
The Patron!
In the flesh.
( chattering )
Clear the room!
Everyone must go. Now!
Out!
Everyone keep moving.
- Bring it in.
- We found this sitting out
in the square.
Stop!
They got Santa's sleigh.
Jenkins is gonna be so mad.
( dance music playing )
Having a good time,
Colonel?
I'm trying to drown this
all out.
So much for
a relaxing time.
Is it just me or does Santa
have horrible taste in music?
Horrible. Look, I'm done.
Santa's driving me crazy.
Theses elves are driving
me crazy.
- All I hear
is this ringing in my ear.
- ( phone ringing )
- No, no, that's your phone.
- What? Oh.
- Oh. Ooh, ooh, ooh.
- ( ringing )
- Yeah, hello.
- Jenkins, hey, hi.
Remember when you said
you didn't know what you wanted
to get me for Christmas?
Well, what I really want
is for you to help me
with something,
and then not tell
Flynn and Baird that you did.
All right, Miss Cillian,
explain.
We broke the door
and we really need to get it
working again because--
well, don't worry
about that right now.
- Explain "broke."
- Well-- hi, Jenkins.
Um, it overheated and then
it caught fire a little bit.
Caught fire?
All right, very well.
I can you through
the repairs.
Okay.
And then we need you to do
something else.
Something else you want me
to keep secret?
Both: Big time.
What's the point in destroying
Santa's sleigh?
No sleigh,
no Christmas.
No Christmas,
no Santa.
Ahh.
It's the only way
to end him.
To make the children
of the world stop
believing in him.
And then he shall just be
a tired old man fading
into nothingness,
whereas I--
I shall be stronger than ever.
Sir, we found Santa's sleigh.
It's all because of you,
Mrs. Jones.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
So, you're a world-famous
thief, eh?
Yeah, I've been trying
to tell you.
And-- and you've broken
into banks and museums.
Yes, but I've given up
that life now.
I'm your mother.
How come I didn't know
anything about this?
- Mum, because
you never listen.
- You selfish child!
I took you in
off the streets!
I gave you a home!
Made you part of my family.
And you had millions
of dollars in your hands?
Where's mine? Eh?
They're going to sing songs
about you.
( chuckles )
The sleigh is here.
Now there's just one
little thing I need you to do.
You see, to destroy it,
I need to own it first.
It's a terms and conditions
kind of thing.
I need you to gift me
the sleigh willingly,
you understand?
No tricks this time.
But I can only accept a gift
that has been stolen.
Then she can't gift it to you
because she didn't steal it.
I did, and I would never
gift the sleigh to you.
Ezekiel's actually right.
Unless, of course,
I was to steal it
from him first.
There, nicked it.
Saint of Thieves,
I gift Santa's sleigh...
to you.
( chuckles )
What are you doing?
You said they'd
sing songs about me.
Oh, they will.
Posthumously.
The penalty for breaking
into my vault is death.
I don't care who you are,
or in your case,
whose mother you are.
I'll be back
to deal with you
once I verify
the sleigh is real.
Thank you.
Okay, so now I know how
to fix the magic door,
but the magic door
is in Australia,
and we're in Geneva,
which is not Australia.
You know how Jenkins does
that thing where he pops up
in the mirrors and the windows
and the picture frames?
- Yeah, the thing
Judson used to do.
- Tell me, Cassandra,
how do you think he's able
to do that?
- Magic?
- Yeah.
I can't believe you hid your
real life from me, Ezekiel.
Mum, we can talk
about this later.
Right now, we need
to get out of these ropes
before the guards
come back and kill us.
Didn't you listen
to anything I taught you?
You hold tension in your body
when they're tying the knots.
That way, when you relax,
you got some slack.
- Yes, Mum, what do you
think I'm doing?
- What do you think I'm doing?
- Finding the slack?
- Yep. Slipping the knot.
Both: Et voila!
So you did listen to me, hmm?
Of course I do, Mum.
I've always listened to you.
- Then why'd you cheat me?
- Cheat you?
- How did I do that?
- My share.
You must have made millions.
Where's my cut?
Yes, I stole millions,
but I never kept any of it!
Oh, baloney.
Who doesn't want money?
It was never
about the money!
I stole because it was an art,
and I was an artist.
- I gave it all away.
- So you gave away money
that could have been mine?
I gave it to people
who needed it.
Mum, when I stole
the Sapphire of Qatar,
a hundred kids
went to college.
When I robbed Fort Knox,
hospitals were built.
I've helped them build
roads and dams,
and I've supported people,
people who couldn't
support themselves
for no other reason
than they got unlucky.
That's why the Library
chose me in the first place,
and that's why I gave it up.
I give my talents
freely now, Mum,
for the greater good.
A calling.
All that money?
You weren't just--
you weren't just
a little bit tempted?
When you've got a lot,
you share.
( all snoring )
- ( ghostly moaning )
- ( screaming )
- There's something
in the mirror!
- What now? Oh!
( moaning )
I am the Ghost
of Christmas Future.
Christmas Ghosts!
I hate Christmas Ghosts!
It is not too late to make
amends for your terrible crimes.
Tell us. Anything!
Inside of your dining room,
there is an old globe
with a shocking amount
of new technology inside it.
( engine starting )
That's the real deal.
( chuckles )
Oh, nearly out
of Christmas cheer.
Once the needle hits zero,
you go to work.
And then it's
God bless us, everyone.
( chuckles )
( powers down )
Stone:
Hi, guys.
Bear here with me for a second
here 'cause I'm still--
I'm trying to get the language
of the Fingerthumbs down.
Now, let me see
if I got this right.
What exactly does this mean?
( all grunting )
Feels like
I'm already fluent.
Oh, Mr. and Mother Jones,
we were discussing the matter
of your imminent demise.
Find them! Find them!
- You guys are late.
- Well, we got tied up.
Yeah, I'm betting you guys
have a plan.
Of course we do.
We're Librarians.
Oh, genius!
We're gonna push the sleigh
through the magic door.
Come on.
Oh, dear me. Dear me.
No, no, no, no.
( clicks tongue )
No, that won't do at all.
You are going
precisely nowhere
with my sleigh.
You have lost,
Ezekiel Jones.
Christmas dies...
tonight.
Very disappointed in you,
Ezekiel.
Is that your grand plan?
To push the sleigh
through a magic door?
Well, the door is not
for getting something out.
It's there to let someone in.
I'm so-- am I late? I'm late.
I'm so sorry I'm late.
I got stuck in a conga line.
Hello.
- This is for you.
- What is this?
A pink slip.
A vehicle registration.
By the way, the sender
also included this note.
"My dear brother,
I am giving you
a Christmas present--
my sleigh.
I gift it to you
willingly and freely,
Santa Claus."
He's giving it to me?
I don't understand.
You see, the Patron Saint
of Thieves cannot accept
a gift that is not stolen.
And this gift
is given freely
by it rightful owner.
Which means you cannot
accept it.
Not now, not ever.
The sleigh and Christmas
will always be safe from you.
Forever. You lose.
Big time.
You can't do this to me!
Not in my bank!
Not on my day!
It's not fair!
It's so not fair!
Whoa.
What happened there?
Well, I think
the Prince of Thieves
just showed us
his true face.
You know, it's been
my experience that behind
every egotistical blowhard,
there is a petulant,
scared little boy
So, what do we do
with it now?
I will bring him back
to Santa.
Well,
if you will excuse me,
I have a really
terrible vacation
that I have to get back to.
Oh, oh, and-- and...
my gift to the three of you
is that neither
Baird nor Flynn
ever have to know
anything about this.
Merry Christmas.
Come along, young man.
Excuse us.
Love your gloves.
( powers down )
All right, thank to Santa's act
of generosity to his bro,
the cheer-o-meter is full.
We can finally fly
this puppy outta here.
No, thank you.
I have had enough
sleigh riding for now.
Mum! You will not believe
the night we've had!
We saw a-- a ghost!
Boo.
( all screaming )
Ah, guess we're good to go.
Mrs. Jones, it was, well,
not exactly a pleasure.
Hope to see you again soon.
My son has excellent taste
in friends.
- Let's go.
- Oh, hey, uh, Stone?
Do you mind, uh,
taking the door as well?
Well, Mum, looks like
we've got one last
sleigh ride to catch.
We do?
Come on.
We've got a festival to fix.
We're going to give back
every last present
that was stolen.
Return gifts
to every grandpa...
mother...
and child.
Because that's what
this holiday is about.
( kids laughing )
Caring for one another.
- Loving one another.
- ( sobbing )
But it's not just gifts
we'll be returning.
We'll be giving
them back joy.
That's why giving is
always better than getting.
Whoo! Ho-ho-ho!
What a rush.
You know, it's exciting
giving things, isn't it?
I mean, who knew?
- Let's go get the next load.
- Oh, uh, Mum,
that's-- that's it.
- What?
- There's no more presents.
What? No. No!
But I could have given
so much more.
Oh, love, I--
oh, my God.
I've lived such a greedy life,
haven't I, Zekey?
Oh, Zekey, I'm--
I'm sorry.
Mum, you adopted four
cuckoo children
who didn't have a place
in the world.
You think all
you taught us was greed?
You gave us love.
You gave us a home.
You gave us a life.
That is what
I learned from you.
Merry Christmas, son.
Merry Christmas, Mum.
I love you, son.
I love you too, Mum.
A little to the left.
A little more.
Perfect!
( globe activating )
Go, go, go, go, go!
- You're back!
- And not a minute too soon.
That is the last time
I take your advice about
needing a vacation.
Point well taken, I concur.
Last time I take
my own advice.
Miss Cillian, Mr. Stone,
how very good to see you
after all this time.
( whispers )
Merry Christmas.
Baird:
So, how was everything here?
- Quiet.
- ( sighs )
Wasn't this facing
the other direction
when we left?
No. No, sir.
I saw it was pointing
in that direction.
- No, I thought 'cause--
- Oh, no, sir. No, no, no.
I think you've had
a little too much eggnog,
muddled your memory a bit.
Point well taken, I concur.
You know, I thought it
would be a good idea
to take a vacation
for the holidays.
- But as it turns out--
- Nothing beats being
with family.
- Here, here.
- Who's up for more eggnog?
Maybe put up some decorations
in the main Library.
Perfect! And you can try on
the sweaters that I made you.
- All: Sweaters?
- Yes!
- Come on!
- ( muttering )